           trunk, cage, and Hedwig vanished. Dumbledore then

           waved his wand again, and the front door opened

           onto cool, misty darkness.

           “And now, Harry, let us step out into the night and

           pursue that flighty temptress, adventure.”

           P a g e | 62

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling




           HORACE SLUGHORN

           Despite the fact that he had spent every waking

           moment of the past few days hoping desperately that

           Dumbledore would indeed come to fetch him, Harry

           felt distinctly awkward as they set off down Privet

           Drive together. He had never had a proper

           conversation with the headmaster outside of




www.ztcprep.com
           Hogwarts before; there was usually a desk between

           them. The memory of their last face-to-face encounter

           kept intruding too, and it rather heightened Harry’s

           sense of embarrassment; he had shouted a lot on that

           occasion, not to mention done his best to smash

           several of Dumbledore’s most prized possessions.

           Dumbledore, however, seemed completely relaxed.

           “Keep your wand at the ready, Harry,” he said

           brightly.

           “But I thought I’m not allowed to use magic outside

           school, sir?”

           P a g e | 63

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           “If there is an attack,” said Dumbledore, “I give you permission to use any
           counterjinx or curse that might

           occur to you. However, I do not think you need worry

           about being attacked tonight.”

           “Why not, sir?”

           “You are with me,” said Dumbledore simply. “This will

           do, Harry.”

           He came to an abrupt halt at the end of Privet Drive.



www.ztcprep.com
           “You have not, of course, passed your Apparition

           Test,” he said.

           “No,” said Harry. “I thought you had to be seventeen?”

           “You do,” said Dumbledore. “So you will need to hold

           on to my arm very tightly. My left, if you don’t mind —

           as you have noticed, my wand arm is a little fragile at

           the moment.”

           Harry gripped Dumbledore’s proffered forearm.

           “Very good,” said Dumbledore. “Well, here we go.”

           Harry felt Dumbledore’s arm twist away from him and

           redoubled his grip; the next thing he knew, everything

           went black; he was being pressed very hard from all

           directions; he could not breathe, there were iron

           bands tightening around his chest; his eyeballs were

           being forced back into his head; his eardrums were

           being pushed deeper into his skull and then —

           He gulped great lungfuls of cold night air and opened

           his streaming eyes. He felt as though he had just

           been forced through a very tight rubber tube. It was a

           few seconds before he realized that Privet Drive had




www.ztcprep.com
           vanished. He and Dumbledore were now standing in

           P a g e | 64

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           what appeared to be a deserted village square, in the center of which stood
           an old war memorial and a few

           benches. His comprehension catching up with his

           senses, Harry realized that he had just Apparated for

           the first time in his life.

           “Are you all right?” asked Dumbledore, looking down

           at him solicitously. “The sensation does take some

           getting used to.”

           “I’m fine,” said Harry, rubbing his ears, which felt as

           though they had left Privet Drive rather reluctantly.

           “But I think I might prefer brooms. …”

           Dumbledore smiled, drew his traveling cloak a little

           more tightly around his neck, and said, “This way.”

           He set off at a brisk pace, past an empty inn and a

           few houses. According to a clock on a nearby church,

           it was almost midnight.

           “So tell me, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “Your scar …

           has it been hurting at all?”



www.ztcprep.com
           Harry raised a hand unconsciously to his forehead

           and rubbed the lightning-shaped mark.

           “No,” he said, “and I’ve been wondering about that. I

           thought it would be burning all the time now

           Voldemort’s getting so powerful again.”

           He glanced up at Dumbledore and saw that he was

           wearing a satisfied expression.

           “I, on the other hand, thought otherwise,” said

           Dumbledore. “Lord Voldemort has finally realized the

           dangerous access to his thoughts and feelings you

           have been enjoying. It appears that he is now

           employing Occlumency against you.”

           P a g e | 65

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           “Well, I’m not complaining,” said Harry, who missed neither the disturbing
           dreams nor the startling

           flashes of insight into Voldemort’s mind.

           They turned a corner, passing a telephone box and a

           bus shelter. Harry looked sideways at Dumbledore

           again. “Professor?”

           “Harry?”



www.ztcprep.com
           “Er — where exactly are we?”

           “This, Harry, is the charming village of Budleigh

           Babberton.”

           “And what are we doing here?”

           “Ah yes, of course, I haven’t told you,” said

           Dumbledore. “Well, I have lost count of the number of

           times I have said this in recent years, but we are,

           once again, one member of staff short. We are here to

           persuade an old colleague of mine to come out of

           retirement and return to Hogwarts.”

           “How can I help with that, sir?”

           “Oh, I think we’ll find a use for you,” said Dumbledore

           vaguely. “Left here, Harry.”

           They proceeded up a steep, narrow street lined with

           houses. All the windows were dark. The odd chill that

           had lain over Privet Drive for two weeks persisted here

           too. Thinking of dementors, Harry cast a look over his

           shoulder and grasped his wand reassuringly in his

           pocket.

           “Professor, why couldn’t we just Apparate directly into




www.ztcprep.com
           your old colleague’s house?”

           P a g e | 66

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           “Because it would be quite as rude as kicking down

           the front door,” said Dumbledore. “Courtesy dictates

           that we offer fellow wizards the opportunity of denying

           us entry. In any case, most Wizarding dwellings are

           magically protected from unwanted Apparators. At

           Hogwarts, for instance —”

           “— you can’t Apparate anywhere inside the buildings

           or grounds,” said Harry quickly. “Hermione Granger

           told me.”

           “And she is quite right. We turn left again.”

           The church clock chimed midnight behind them.

           Harry wondered why Dumbledore did not consider it

           rude to call on his old colleague so late, but now that

           conversation had been established, he had more

           pressing questions to ask.

           “Sir, I saw in the Daily Prophet that Fudge has been

           sacked. …”




www.ztcprep.com
           “Correct,” said Dumbledore, now turning up a steep

           side street. “He has been replaced, as I am sure you

           also saw, by Rufus Scrimgeour, who used to be Head

           of the Auror office.”

           “Is he … Do you think he’s good?” asked Harry.

           “An interesting question,” said Dumbledore. “He is

           able, certainly. A more decisive and forceful

           personality than Cornelius.”

           “Yes, but I meant —”

           “I know what you meant. Rufus is a man of action

           and, having fought Dark wizards for most of his

           working life, does not underestimate Lord Voldemort.”

           P a g e | 67

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not say anything

           about the disagreement with Scrimgeour that the

           Daily Prophet had reported, and he did not have the

           nerve to pursue the subject, so he changed it. “And …

           sir … I saw about Madam Bones.”

           “Yes,” said Dumbledore quietly. “A terrible loss. She




www.ztcprep.com
           was a great witch. Just up here, I think — ouch.”

           He had pointed with his injured hand.

           “Professor, what happened to your — ?”

           “I have no time to explain now,” said Dumbledore. “It

           is a thrilling tale, I wish to do it justice.”

           He smiled at Harry, who understood that he was not

           being snubbed, and that he had permission to keep

           asking questions.

           “Sir — I got a Ministry of Magic leaflet by owl, about

           security measures we should all take against the

           Death Eaters. …”

           “Yes, I received one myself,” said Dumbledore, still

           smiling. “Did you find it useful?”

           “Not really.”

           “No, I thought not. You have not asked me, for

           instance, what is my favorite flavor of jam, to check

           that I am indeed Professor Dumbledore and not an

           impostor.”

           “I didn’t …” Harry began, not entirely sure whether he

           was being reprimanded or not.




www.ztcprep.com
           “For future reference, Harry, it is raspberry …

           although of course, if I were a Death Eater, I would

           P a g e | 68

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           have been sure to research my own jam preferences

           before impersonating myself.”

           “Er … right,” said Harry. “Well, on that leaflet, it said

           something about Inferi. What exactly are they? The

           leaflet wasn’t very clear.”

           “They are corpses,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Dead

           bodies that have been bewitched to do a Dark

           wizard’s bidding. Inferi have not been seen for a long

           time, however, not since Voldemort was last powerful.

           … He killed enough people to make an army of them,

           of course. This is the place, Harry, just here. …”

           They were nearing a small, neat stone house set in its

           own garden. Harry was too busy digesting the horrible

           idea of Inferi to have much attention left for anything

           else, but as they reached the front gate, Dumbledore

           stopped dead and Harry walked into him.




www.ztcprep.com
