           in the last week (as though anyone needed reminding)

           but also to explain why each and every one of them

           was the government’s fault.

           The Prime Minister’s pulse quickened at the very

           thought of these accusations, for they were neither

           fair nor true. How on earth was his government

           Page|2

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           supposed to have stopped that bridge collapsing? It

           was outrageous for anybody to suggest that they were

           not spending enough on bridges. The bridge was

           fewer than ten years old, and the best experts were at

           a loss to explain why it had snapped cleanly in two,

           sending a dozen cars into the watery depths of the

           river below. And how dare anyone suggest that it was

           lack of policemen that had resulted in those two very

           nasty and well-publicized murders? Or that the

           government should have somehow foreseen the freak

           hurricane in the West Country that had caused so

           much damage to both people and property? And was




www.ztcprep.com
           it his fault that one of his Junior Ministers, Herbert

           Chorley, had chosen this week to act so peculiarly

           that he was now going to be spending a lot more time

           with his family?

           “A grim mood has gripped the country,” the opponent

           had concluded, barely concealing his own broad grin.

           And unfortunately, this was perfectly true. The Prime

           Minister felt it himself; people really did seem more

           miserable than usual. Even the weather was dismal;

           all this chilly mist in the middle of July. … It wasn’t

           right, it wasn’t normal. …

           He turned over the second page of the memo, saw

           how much longer it went on, and gave it up as a bad

           job. Stretching his arms above his head he looked

           around his office mournfully. It was a handsome

           room, with a fine marble fireplace facing the long sash

           windows, firmly closed against the unseasonable

           chill. With a slight shiver, the Prime Minister got up

           and moved over to the window, looking out at the thin

           mist that was pressing itself against the glass. It was




www.ztcprep.com
           then, as he stood with his back to the room, that he

           heard a soft cough behind him.

           Page|3

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           He froze, nose to nose with his own scared-looking

           reflection in the dark glass. He knew that cough. He

           had heard it before. He turned very slowly to face the

           empty room.

           “Hello?” he said, trying to sound braver than he felt.

           For a brief moment he allowed himself the impossible

           hope that nobody would answer him. However, a

           voice responded at once, a crisp, decisive voice that

           sounded as though it were reading a prepared

           statement. It was coming — as the Prime Minister

           had known at the first cough — from the froglike little

           man wearing a long silver wig who was depicted in a

           small, dirty oil painting in the far corner of the room.

           “To the Prime Minister of Muggles. Urgent we meet.

           Kindly respond immediately. Sincerely, Fudge.”

           The man in the painting looked inquiringly at the




www.ztcprep.com
           Prime Minister.

           “Er,” said the Prime Minister, “listen. … It’s not a very

           good time for me. … I’m waiting for a telephone call,

           you see … from the President of —”

           “That can be rearranged,” said the portrait at once.

           The Prime Minister’s heart sank. He had been afraid

           of that.

           “But I really was rather hoping to speak —”

           “We shall arrange for the President to forget to call.

           He will telephone tomorrow night instead,” said the

           little man. “Kindly respond immediately to Mr.

           Fudge.”

           “I … oh … very well,” said the Prime Minister weakly.

           “Yes, I’ll see Fudge.”

           Page|4

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           He hurried back to his desk, straightening his tie as he went. He had barely
           resumed his seat, and

           arranged his face into what he hoped was a relaxed

           and unfazed expression, when bright green flames

           burst into life in the empty grate beneath his marble



www.ztcprep.com
           mantelpiece. He watched, trying not to betray a flicker

           of surprise or alarm, as a portly man appeared within

           the flames, spinning as fast as a top. Seconds later,

           he had climbed out onto a rather fine antique rug,

           brushing ash from the sleeves of his long pin-striped

           cloak, a lime-green bowler hat in his hand.

           “Ah … Prime Minister,” said Cornelius Fudge, striding

           forward with his hand outstretched. “Good to see you

           again.”

           The Prime Minister could not honestly return this

           compliment, so said nothing at all. He was not

           remotely pleased to see Fudge, whose occasional

           appearances, apart from being downright alarming in

           themselves, generally meant that he was about to

           hear some very bad news. Furthermore, Fudge was

           looking distinctly careworn. He was thinner, balder,

           and grayer, and his face had a crumpled look. The

           Prime Minister had seen that kind of look in

           politicians before, and it never boded well.

           “How can I help you?” he said, shaking Fudge’s hand




www.ztcprep.com
           very briefly and gesturing toward the hardest of the

           chairs in front of the desk.

           “Difficult to know where to begin,” muttered Fudge,

           pulling up the chair, sitting down, and placing his

           green bowler upon his knees. “What a week, what a

           week …”

           “Had a bad one too, have you?” asked the Prime

           Minister stiffly, hoping to convey by this that he had

           Page|5

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           quite enough on his plate already without any extra

           helpings from Fudge.

           “Yes, of course,” said Fudge, rubbing his eyes wearily

           and looking morosely at the Prime Minister. “I’ve been

           having the same week you have, Prime Minister. The

           Brockdale Bridge … the Bones and Vance murders …

           not to mention the ruckus in the West Country …”

           “You — er — your — I mean to say, some of your

           people were — were involved in those — those things,

           were they?”




www.ztcprep.com
           Fudge fixed the Prime Minister with a rather stern

           look. “Of course they were,” he said. “Surely you’ve

           realized what’s going on?”

           “I …” hesitated the Prime Minister.

           It was precisely this sort of behavior that made him

           dislike Fudge’s visits so much. He was, after all, the

           Prime Minister and did not appreciate being made to

           feel like an ignorant schoolboy. But of course, it had

           been like this from his very first meeting with Fudge

           on his very first evening as Prime Minister. He

           remembered it as though it were yesterday and knew

           it would haunt him until his dying day.

           He had been standing alone in this very office,

           savoring the triumph that was his after so many

           years of dreaming and scheming, when he had heard

           a cough behind him, just like tonight, and turned to

           find that ugly little portrait talking to him,

           announcing that the Minister of Magic was about to

           arrive and introduce himself.

           Naturally, he had thought that the long campaign and




www.ztcprep.com
           the strain of the election had caused him to go mad.

           He had been utterly terrified to find a portrait talking

           Page|6

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           to him, though this had been nothing to how he felt

           when a self-proclaimed wizard had bounced out of the

           fireplace and shaken his hand. He had remained

           speechless throughout Fudge’s kindly explanation

           that there were witches and wizards still living in

           secret all over the world and his reassurances that he

           was not to bother his head about them as the

           Ministry of Magic took responsibility for the whole

           Wizarding community and prevented the non-magical

           population from getting wind of them. It was, said

           Fudge, a difficult job that encompassed everything

           from regulations on responsible use of broomsticks to

           keeping the dragon population under control (the

           Prime Minister remembered clutching the desk for

           support at this point). Fudge had then patted the

           shoulder of the still-dumbstruck Prime Minister in a




www.ztcprep.com
           fatherly sort of way.

           “Not to worry,” he had said, “it’s odds-on you’ll never

           see me again. I’ll only bother you if there’s something

           really serious going on our end, something that’s

           likely to affect the Muggles — the non-magical

           population, I should say. Otherwise, it’s live and let

           live. And I must say, you’re taking it a lot better than

           your predecessor. He tried to throw me out the

           window, thought I was a hoax planned by the

           opposition.”

           At this, the Prime Minister had found his voice at last.

           “You’re — you’re not a hoax, then?”

           It had been his last, desperate hope.

           “No,” said Fudge gently. “No, I’m afraid I’m not. Look.”

           And he had turned the Prime Minister’s teacup into a

           gerbil.

           Page|7

           Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling

           “But,” said the Prime Minister breathlessly, watching his teacup chewing on
           the corner of his next speech,

           “but why — why has nobody told me — ?”



www.ztcprep.com
           “The Minister of Magic only reveals him- or herself to

           the Muggle Prime Minister of the day,” said Fudge,

           poking his wand back inside his jacket. “We find it

           the best way to maintain secrecy.”

           “But then,” bleated the Prime Minister, “why hasn’t a

           former Prime Minister warned me — ?”

           At this, Fudge had actually laughed.

           “My dear Prime Minister, are you ever going to tell

           anybody?”

           Still chortling, Fudge had thrown some powder into

           the fireplace, stepped into the emerald flames, and

           vanished with a whooshing sound. The Prime

           Minister had stood there, quite motionless, and

           realized that he would never, as long as he lived, dare

           mention this encounter to a living soul, for who in the

           wide world would believe him?

           The shock had taken a little while to wear off. For a

           time, he had tried to convince himself that Fudge had

           indeed been a hallucination brought on by lack of

           sleep during his grueling election campaign. In a vain




www.ztcprep.com
